README.md, before:

# SeizureScoreAI: Multi-Agent Clinical Reasoning System

A multi-agent system designed to emulate epileptologist decision-making for ILAE outcome scoring after epilepsy surgery. Built with **Google's Agent Development Kit (ADK)**, the system uses Gemini 2.5 Pro models in a hierarchical agent architecture to process clinical notes and determine post-surgical outcomes. The goal is to teach an LLM to reason like an epileptologist.

## Overview

SeizureScoreAI employs a three-agent system to process clinical notes and determine ILAE (International League Against Epilepsy) outcome scores:

1. **Clinical Information Extractor**: Analyzes clinical notes to extract key metrics including:
   - Presence of seizure freedom
   - Presence of auras
   - Baseline seizure frequency
   - Post-treatment seizure frequency

2. **ILAE Score Calculator**: Applies expertise to:
   - Process extracted clinical information
   - Calculate ILAE outcome scores based on standard criteria
   - Provide detailed reasoning for score determination

3. **Concise Reporter**: Generates clear, concise explanations of:
   - Final ILAE score
   - Key factors influencing the score
   - Clinical reasoning behind the determination


## Technical Architecture

### Components

- **Frontend**: Streamlit interface for clinical note input and result display
- **Backend**: Multi-agent system built with **Google Agent Development Kit (ADK)**
- **Agent Framework**: Hierarchical agent architecture using ADK's `LlmAgent` class
- **Model**: Gemini 2.5 Pro for all agents
- **Agent Orchestration**: Root orchestrator agent coordinates three specialized sub-agents
- **Structured Output**: JSON-formatted data for consistent processing

### Data Flow

1. Clinical note input → Information Extraction
2. Structured data → ILAE Score Calculation
3. Detailed analysis → Concise Reporting
4. Final output → User presentation

## Usage

Run the Streamlit application:
```bash
streamlit run app/streamlit_app.py
```

The application will:
1. Accept clinical notes as input
2. Process them through the multi-agent system
3. Return ILAE scores with explanations
4. Provide detailed reasoning for the determination

## ILAE Outcome Scale

The system evaluates surgical outcomes based on the following scale[^1]:
- **Class 1**: Completely seizure free; no auras
- **Class 2**: Only auras; no other seizures
- **Class 3**: 1-3 seizure days per year; ± auras
- **Class 4**: 4 seizure days per year to 50% reduction of baseline seizure days; ± auras
- **Class 5**: Less than 50% reduction of baseline seizure days; ± auras
- **Class 6**: More than 100% increase of baseline seizure days; ± auras

[^1]: Source: [MGH Epilepsy Service - Epilepsy Surgery Outcome Scales](https://seizure.mgh.harvard.edu/engel-surgical-outcome-scale/)

## Development

### Project Structure
```
SeizureScoreAI/
├── src/
│   └── seizure_score_ai/
│       ├── __init__.py                          # Package initialization
│       └── agents.py                            # Multi-agent system using Google ADK with LlmAgent
├── app/
│   ├── streamlit_app.py                         # Streamlit frontend
│   ├── assets/
│   │   └── brainmodlab.png                      # UI assets
│   ├── example_notes/                           # Example clinical notes for demo
│   │   ├── ilaeclass1.txt
│   │   ├── ilaeclass2.txt
│   │   └── ilaeclass3.txt
│   └── config.toml                              # Streamlit configuration
├── scripts/
│   └── generate_clinic_notes.py                 # Synthetic clinic note generator
├── tests/
│   └── test_gemini.py                           # API verification test
├── data/
│   └── test_notes/                              # Sample clinical notes (synthetic)
│       ├── clinic_note_1.txt
│       ├── clinic_note_2.txt
│       └── ...
├── docs/
│   ├── ilae_kg.drawio                           # Visual representation of scoring logic
│   └── ...                                      # Presentations and documentation
├── .env                                         # Environment variables (not in repo)
├── .gitignore                                   # Git ignore rules
├── requirements.txt                             # Python dependencies
└── README.md                                    # Project documentation
```

### Testing

The system includes a comprehensive set of **synthetically generated test clinical notes** in the `test_notes/` directory, representing various post-surgical outcomes and clinical scenarios. These notes are designed to simulate real-world inputs but **do not contain any Protected Health Information (PHI)**, ensuring compliance with privacy regulations.


## Technology Stack

- **AI Framework**: **[Google Agent Development Kit (ADK)](https://google.github.io/adk-docs/)** (`google-adk>=0.3.0`)
  - **Agent Architecture**: Hierarchical multi-agent system with `LlmAgent` class
  - **Model**: Gemini 2.5 Pro for all three specialized agents
  - **Orchestration**: Root agent coordinates sub-agents (Clinical Information Extractor, ILAE Score Calculator, Concise Reporter)
  - **Runner**: ADK's `Runner` class for agent execution and lifecycle management
  - **Benefits**: Production-ready framework with built-in tools, memory, observability, and deployment capabilities
- **Frontend**: Streamlit web application
- **Programming Language**: Python 3.12+
- **Environment Management**: python-dotenv for secure API key handling

## Security Considerations
- The system is **not currently HIPAA compliant**. Users must ensure that input clinical notes do not contain any Protected Health Information (PHI) before using the system.
- API keys are managed through environment variables
- Never commit `.env` files to version control
- Streamlit Cloud secrets provide secure deployment

## Limitations

- Requires high-quality clinical notes for accurate scoring
- LLM responses may vary slightly between runs
- System should be used as a support tool, not a replacement for clinical judgment
- Performance depends on the quality and completeness of input clinical notes

## Contributions

This project originated at the AI ATL Hackathon and was developed by [Vineet Reddy](https://github.com/vineet-reddy), [Viresh Pati](https://github.com/vireshpati), [Mukesh Paranthaman](https://github.com/MukProgram), and [Sachi Goel](https://github.com/computer-s-2).

- **[Vineet Reddy](https://github.com/vineet-reddy):** Conceived the idea to analyze epilepsy clinic notes and output ILAE scores. Developed the original Named Entity Recognition (NER) system with Viresh Pati. After the hackathon, rewrote and revamped the project creating the current multi-agent RAG system and updating the user interface.  
- **[Viresh Pati](https://github.com/vireshpati):** Co-designed the initial NER and designed the initial knowledge graph retrieval-augmented generation (KG RAG) system.  
- **[Mukesh Paranthaman](https://github.com/MukProgram):** Co-built the backend for the original NER and KG RAG system.  
- **[Sachi Goel](https://github.com/computer-s-2):** Designed the initial Streamlit frontend.  
- **[Ananda Badari](https://github.com/abadari3):** Developed the now-deprecated logic for predicting ILAE and Engel scores using knowledge graphs.

Their foundational work made the advanced multi-agent RAG system and updated interface possible.

### ILAE Outcome Scale Citation

The ILAE Outcome Scale used in this system is sourced from the Massachusetts General Hospital Epilepsy Service. For more information, visit their [Epilepsy Surgery Outcome Scales page](https://seizure.mgh.harvard.edu/engel-surgical-outcome-scale/).

Commit message:

move contributor history to CONTRIBUTING.md

README.md, after:

# SeizureScoreAI: Multi-Agent Clinical Reasoning System

A multi-agent system designed to emulate epileptologist decision-making for ILAE outcome scoring after epilepsy surgery. Built with **Google's Agent Development Kit (ADK)**, the system uses Gemini 2.5 Pro models in a hierarchical agent architecture to process clinical notes and determine post-surgical outcomes. The goal is to teach an LLM to reason like an epileptologist.

## Overview

SeizureScoreAI employs a three-agent system to process clinical notes and determine ILAE (International League Against Epilepsy) outcome scores:

1. **Clinical Information Extractor**: Analyzes clinical notes to extract key metrics including:
   - Presence of seizure freedom
   - Presence of auras
   - Baseline seizure frequency
   - Post-treatment seizure frequency

2. **ILAE Score Calculator**: Applies expertise to:
   - Process extracted clinical information
   - Calculate ILAE outcome scores based on standard criteria
   - Provide detailed reasoning for score determination

3. **Concise Reporter**: Generates clear, concise explanations of:
   - Final ILAE score
   - Key factors influencing the score
   - Clinical reasoning behind the determination


## Technical Architecture

### Components

- **Frontend**: Streamlit interface for clinical note input and result display
- **Backend**: Multi-agent system built with **Google Agent Development Kit (ADK)**
- **Agent Framework**: Hierarchical agent architecture using ADK's `LlmAgent` class
- **Model**: Gemini 2.5 Pro for all agents
- **Agent Orchestration**: Root orchestrator agent coordinates three specialized sub-agents
- **Structured Output**: JSON-formatted data for consistent processing

### Data Flow

1. Clinical note input → Information Extraction
2. Structured data → ILAE Score Calculation
3. Detailed analysis → Concise Reporting
4. Final output → User presentation

## Usage

Run the Streamlit application:
```bash
streamlit run app/streamlit_app.py
```

The application will:
1. Accept clinical notes as input
2. Process them through the multi-agent system
3. Return ILAE scores with explanations
4. Provide detailed reasoning for the determination

## ILAE Outcome Scale

The system evaluates surgical outcomes based on the following scale[^1]:
- **Class 1**: Completely seizure free; no auras
- **Class 2**: Only auras; no other seizures
- **Class 3**: 1-3 seizure days per year; ± auras
- **Class 4**: 4 seizure days per year to 50% reduction of baseline seizure days; ± auras
- **Class 5**: Less than 50% reduction of baseline seizure days; ± auras
- **Class 6**: More than 100% increase of baseline seizure days; ± auras

[^1]: Source: [MGH Epilepsy Service - Epilepsy Surgery Outcome Scales](https://seizure.mgh.harvard.edu/engel-surgical-outcome-scale/)

## Development

### Project Structure
```
SeizureScoreAI/
├── src/
│   └── seizure_score_ai/
│       ├── __init__.py                          # Package initialization
│       └── agents.py                            # Multi-agent system using Google ADK with LlmAgent
├── app/
│   ├── streamlit_app.py                         # Streamlit frontend
│   ├── assets/
│   │   └── brainmodlab.png                      # UI assets
│   ├── example_notes/                           # Example clinical notes for demo
│   │   ├── ilaeclass1.txt
│   │   ├── ilaeclass2.txt
│   │   └── ilaeclass3.txt
│   └── config.toml                              # Streamlit configuration
├── scripts/
│   └── generate_clinic_notes.py                 # Synthetic clinic note generator
├── tests/
│   └── test_gemini.py                           # API verification test
├── data/
│   └── test_notes/                              # Sample clinical notes (synthetic)
│       ├── clinic_note_1.txt
│       ├── clinic_note_2.txt
│       └── ...
├── docs/
│   ├── ilae_kg.drawio                           # Visual representation of scoring logic
│   └── ...                                      # Presentations and documentation
├── .env                                         # Environment variables (not in repo)
├── .gitignore                                   # Git ignore rules
├── requirements.txt                             # Python dependencies
└── README.md                                    # Project documentation
```

### Testing

The system includes a comprehensive set of **synthetically generated test clinical notes** in the `test_notes/` directory, representing various post-surgical outcomes and clinical scenarios. These notes are designed to simulate real-world inputs but **do not contain any Protected Health Information (PHI)**, ensuring compliance with privacy regulations.


## Technology Stack

- **AI Framework**: **[Google Agent Development Kit (ADK)](https://google.github.io/adk-docs/)** (`google-adk>=0.3.0`)
  - **Agent Architecture**: Hierarchical multi-agent system with `LlmAgent` class
  - **Model**: Gemini 2.5 Pro for all three specialized agents
  - **Orchestration**: Root agent coordinates sub-agents (Clinical Information Extractor, ILAE Score Calculator, Concise Reporter)
  - **Runner**: ADK's `Runner` class for agent execution and lifecycle management
  - **Benefits**: Production-ready framework with built-in tools, memory, observability, and deployment capabilities
- **Frontend**: Streamlit web application
- **Programming Language**: Python 3.12+
- **Environment Management**: python-dotenv for secure API key handling

## Security Considerations
- The system is **not currently HIPAA compliant**. Users must ensure that input clinical notes do not contain any Protected Health Information (PHI) before using the system.
- API keys are managed through environment variables
- Never commit `.env` files to version control
- Streamlit Cloud secrets provide secure deployment

## Limitations

- Requires high-quality clinical notes for accurate scoring
- LLM responses may vary slightly between runs
- System should be used as a support tool, not a replacement for clinical judgment
- Performance depends on the quality and completeness of input clinical notes

## Contributing

Interested in contributing? Check out [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines on how to get started!

## Project History

This project originated as a proof-of-concept at the AI ATL Hackathon and has since undergone a complete architectural rewrite. The current implementation uses Google's Agent Development Kit with a multi-agent system, representing a fundamental redesign from the original NER/Knowledge Graph approach. See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md#project-history-and-contributors) for detailed project evolution and contributor information.

## Citation

The ILAE Outcome Scale used in this system is sourced from the Massachusetts General Hospital Epilepsy Service. For more information, visit their [Epilepsy Surgery Outcome Scales page](https://seizure.mgh.harvard.edu/engel-surgical-outcome-scale/).
